= RSQL

Homepage:: https://rubygems.org/gems/rsql

== DESCRIPTION

This is an application to make working with a SQL command line more
convenient by allowing interaction with recipes and Ruby code in
addition to embedding the common operation of using a SSH connection
to an intermediary host for access to the SQL server.

=== Installation

  gem install rsql

Alternatively, RSQL can be downloaded as a tar.gz or zip and run
directly from within the unpacked source directory. The only
requirement is that SSH functionality will be disabled unless the
Net::SSH Ruby library is installed and available.

== USAGE

RSQL is invoked from the comamnd line using:

  rsql [<options>] <mysql_host> [<database>] [-e [<query>]]

=== Options

-version::
  Display the version of RSQL that is installed.

-verbose::
  Display details on SSH connections and evaluation stack traces.

-rc _rcfile_::
  Override loading the .rsqlrc file from the HOME directory for one in
  a different location.

-maxrows _max_::
  Override the maximum number of rows to process.

-batch _field_separator_::
  Run in batch mode using the separator specifed (e.g. a /t will
  separate fields with a tab character).

-ssh _ssh_host_::
  Establish an SSH connection before connecting to the MySQL host.

-sshconfig _ssh_config_::
  Use a specific SSH configuration file instead of the ones
  dynamically determined.

-e [_query_]::
  Run a query from the command line (i.e. not interactive). If a
  _query_ is not provided, STDIN will be read. Multiple commands can
  be issued in one set by separation with semicolons just as if they
  had been provided at the RSQL prompt interactively. This option
  *must* be the last option specified.

The _ssh_host_ and _mysql_host_ arguments may optionally include
_user_ and _password_ values using the following syntax:

  [<user>[:<password>]@]<host>

An empty password can be provided by simply listing nothing between
demarcation points:

  root:@127.0.0.1

Once at the +rsql+ prompt, normal MySQL queries can be entered as
expected, ending each with a semicolon (;) for columnar output or \G
for line-by-line output formatting.

Ruby commands will be evaluated for any content entered at the RSQL
prompt beginning with a period (.).

== GETTING STARTED

This example walks through many features of RSQL including how to
build up recipes:

https://github.com/bradrf/rsql/raw/master/example.rsqlrc

The file is available as example.rsqlrc installed with the gem or
downloaded with the source.

== LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 by Brad Robel-Forrest <brad+rsql@gigglewax.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
